docs: initial content for the Connectity class (#36)
NativeScript/docs: content/guide/core/connectivity.md

---
title: Connectivity
description: Get the current device network connection type and monitor changes in the connection type.
---

> The `Connectivity` class (singlton) abstracts the native API responsible for providing information about the network's connection type and availability.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `Connectivity` class, created as a singleton, abstracts the native API responsible for providing information about the network's connection type and availability.
```

## Using the Connectivity class

To use the Connectivity class, import it from `@nativescript/core`.

```ts
import { Connectivity } from '@nativescript/core'
```

### Getting the current connection type

To check what type of network is currently connected use the [getConnectionType()](#getConnectionType) method.

```ts
const connectionType: number = Connectivity.getConnectionType()

if (connectionType) { // `Connectivity.connectionType.none`` is `0` so truthiness can be used to determine if the device is connected to any type of network
  fetch('https://httpbin.org/get')
    .then((response) => reponse.text())
    .then((result) => console.log(`Fetched ${result} with ${connectionType}`));
} else {
  console.log("Not connected to a network.")
}
```

> Conditional behavior can also easily be added for certian types of connections using the `Connectivity.connectionType` enum.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Conditional behavior can easily be added for certain types of connections using the `Connectivity.connectionType` enum.
```

```ts
if (connectionType === Connectivity.connectionType.wifi || connectionType === Connectivity.connectionType.ethernet) {
  // Download large file
} else {
  // Download mobile friendly file
}
```

### Monitor changes to the connection type

Using the [startMonitoring()](#startMonitoring) method changes to the connection type can be observed.

```ts
Connectivity.startMonitoring((change: number) => {
    switch(change) {
        case Connectivity.connectionType.wifi:
        case Connectivity.connectionType.ethernet:
            console.log("Connected to home network");
            break;
        case Connectivity.connectionType.mobile:
        case Connectivity.connectionType.bluetooth:
            console.log("Connected to mobile network");
            break;
        case Connectivity.connectionType.vpn:
            console.log("Connected to vpn network");
            break;
        default:
            console.log("Not connected to any network");
            break;
    }
});
```

> If you would like to stop monitoring connecivity changes call [stopMonitoring()](#stopMonitoring)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you wish to halt the monitoring of connectivity changes, use the [stopMonitoring()](#stopMonitoring) function.
```
